So fetching the data from the database is working
and that's great
but even though we're not using the ID on the frontend yet, we'll eventually have a problem because
on the frontend, we expect to have an ID with an underscore
but what we actually store and what typescript doesn't know when the code gets compiled
hence we don't get an error is that our backend data actually does have an underscore, right,
you can see it here,
it's _id what we're getting from the database.
So this is of course not ideal,
we want to have a set up where we well have the right data stored on the frontend.
Now we could of course simply rename that to _id on the frontend and be fine
but I want to stick to ID and therefore in get posts, we can simply convert the data we get back
from the server before we use it in subscribe, since the http client of angular uses observables,
we also got access to the many great operators observables offer.
Operators are basically functions, actions
we can apply to the observable streams or to be precise, to the data we get through these streams before the
data is ultimately handled in the subscription.
So we play something before subscribe but still chained to that observable chain
and that something is the pipe method.
Now pipe simply allows us to add in such an operator and we can actually pipe multiple operators,
so pipe is a method that accepts multiple operators
we can add. Now to use an operator, we need to import it,
so we import an operator from rxjs/operators and the operator I want to use here is called
the map operator.
Now if you worked with javascript a bit, you probably know the map method you can use on arrays,
this method allows you to transform every element of an array into a new element and store them all
back into a new array
and it's essentially the same what map does here, we use it like this and it will get executed on our observable
stream and the map function your expects an argument. It expects an argument, a function which should
execute on every data that makes it through that observable stream,
so in the case of an http request, our response or since we use the http client, the already extracted
response body here.
So what we get here is our post data and then we can do something with it here in the body of that function
we passed to map.
Now that post data will actually not be this data object here anymore, it will not hold a valid post because
the ID is wrong,
so instead posts is of type any. Now we know the exact type and we could define it as such but let's
say we want to save time, it's type any,
you could of course be more clear about the type.
So here we want to return the array of posts and we do that by accessing post data posts let's say and
this will automatically be wrapped into an observable by rxjs so that subscribe still subscribes
to an observable
and this now would give us the posts,
so we already stripped out the message but of course we want to convert every post and we'll do this
with the normal javascript map method which we can add to any array
and this is just an array
and in that array, we want to replace every post with a new javascript object,
so here we return a new javascript object for every post which has a title which is post title, which
has a content that is post content but which also has an ID which has post_id because that
is what we're getting back from the backend.
So now every element in the array will be converted to such an object and it will be put back into a
new array which we then return here and then this will be wrapped by an observable and be passed on to
the subscription.
Now with that, we also have to update our code down there where we subscribe,
this should now simply just post, we just get back the posts here or since I have the name here already,
let's name this transformed posts, any name you like because this is now the result of our map operation.
Now if we save that and angular reloads, well we fetch data again but this time we will have the correct
ID and I can prove that to you in the next lectures
when we'll also add a functionality to delete a post, to make that delete button work.